On the event of their marriage, Alf and Betty are gifted a magnificent and weighty set of twenty-six wrought iron letters, from A to Z, by their good friends Anna and Graham. 

Alf and Betty have, in their home, a shelf sturdy enough to display their gift, but it is only large enough to hold fifteen of the letters at one time. They decide to select fifteen of the letters and rearrange them every day, as part of their daily workout, and to select a different set of letters from time to time, when they grow bored of the current set. 

To pass the time during their honeymoon, Alf and Betty select their first set of letters and find seven arrangements, one for each day of the week, that they think Anna and Graham would approve of. They are:

               Mon: HANDY COILS ERUPT
               Tue: SPOIL UNDER YACHT
               Wed: DRAIN STYLE POUCH
               Thu: DITCH SYRUP ALONE
               Fri: SOAPY THIRD UNCLE
               Sat: SHINE PARTY CLOUD 
               Sun: RADIO LUNCH TYPES


They decide to write down instructions for how to rearrange Monday's arrangement of letters into Tuesday's arrangement, Tuesday's to Wednesday's and so on, ending with Sunday's to Monday's. 

However, rather than use the letters, they number the positions on the shelf from 1 to 15, and use those position numbers in their instructions. They decide to call these instructions "permutations".

So, for example, to move from the Wednesday arrangement to the Thursday arrangement, i.e.

 Position on shelf:  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15
               Wed:  D  R  A  I  N  S  T  Y  L  E  P  O  U  C  H
               Thu:  D  I  T  C  H  S  Y  R  U  P  A  L  O  N  E

they would write the permutation as:

              Wed:  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15
              Thu:  1  4  7 14 15  6  8  2 13 11  3  9 12  5 10

(i.e. The D that is in position 1 on Thursday stayed in position 1, the I that is in position 2 on Thursday came from position 4, the T in position 3 came from position 7, and so on.)

They decide to call this "two-line notation", because it takes two lines to write it down. They notice that the first line is always going to be the same, so it can be omitted, and simplify it to a "one-line notation" that would look like this:

              Wed->Thu: 1 4 7 14 15 6 8 2 13 11 3 9 12 5 10

As a subtle nuance, they figure out that when the letters at the right hand end don't move, they can safely leave them off the notation. For example, Mon and Tue both end with T, so for Mon->Tue the one-line notation would be fourteen numbers long rather than fifteen. 

Then they notice that the letter at position 9 moves to position 12, the letter at position 12 moves to position 13, and the letter at position 13 moves to position 9, forming the cycle 9->12->13->9->12->13-> etc., which they decide to write as (9 12 13). They call this a 3-cycle, because if they applied the cycle to the letters in those positions three times, they would end up back in their original positions.

They also notice that the letters in positions 1 and 6 do not move, so they decide to not write down any of the 1-cycles (not just the ones at the end as with the one-line notation.) They also decide that they will always write cycles starting with the smallest number in the cycle, and that when they write down the cycles in a permutation, the will be sorted by the first number in the permutation, smallest first.

The permutation Wed->Thur has a 10-cycle starting at position 2, a 3-cycle starting at position 9 and two 1-cycles (at positions 1 and 6), so they write down:

              Wed->Thu: (2 8 7 3 11 10 15 5 14 4) (9 12 13) 

They decide to call this "cycle notation". (By pure coincidence all the names they have chosen are the same as those used by mathematicians working in the field of abstract algebra. The abstract algebra term for converting from one-line notation to cycle notation is "decomposition". Alf and Betty probably wouldn't have thought of that. 1-cycles, 2-cycles, 3-cycles et cetera are collectively called k-cycles. 2-cycles are also called transpositions. One more piece of terminology: two or more cycles are disjoint if they have no elements in common. The cycles of a permutation written in cycle notation are disjoint.)

Alf and Betty notice that they can perform the first k-cycle as a series of transpositions, swapping the letters in positions 14 and 4, then the letters in positions 5 and 14, then 15 and 5, then 10 and 15 and so on, ending with swapping the letters in positions 4 and 2.

Then it occurs to them that it would be more efficient if one of them took the letter in position 8 and held it while the other moved the letter in position 7 and moved it to position 8, then moved 3 to 7, 11 to 3 and so on. Finally the one who had been holding the letter from position 8 could put it in position 2.

Computer programmers would call this an "in-place" solution. The one and two-line notations lend themselves to a not-in-place solution, i.e., having a second shelf that they could conveniently move they letters to while rearranging them.

If they accidentally did the Wed->Thu permutation on the wrong day of the week they would end up with a jumble of letters that they would need to undo using a Thu->Wed permutation. Mathematicians would call this the inverse of Wed->Thu.

They could do this in two-line notation by swapping the top and bottom lines and calculating the one-line notation result.

              Wed->Thu:  1  4  7 14 15  6  8  2 13 11  3  9 12  5 10
                         1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15
                        --------------------------------------------
              Thu->Wed:  1  8 11  2 14  6  3  7 12 15 10 13  9  4  5 

(To perform the calculation: The 1 in the top line has a 1 below it, so 1 goes in the first position in the result. The 2 in the second line has an 4 above it, so write 2 in the fourth position in the result. Th 3 in the second line has a seven above it, so write 3 in the seventh position in the result and so on.)

Or they could use cycle notation. To invert a cycle, reverse the order of the numbers in it. To maintain the convention that cycles start with the smallest number in the cycle, move the first number in the cycle to the end before reversing. So (9 13 12) -> (13 12 9) -> (9 12 13). Do this for every cycle.

              Wed->Thu: (2 8 7 3 11 10 15 5 14 4) (9 12 13)
              Thu->Wed: (2 4 14 5 15 10 11 3 7 8) (9 13 12)
              
If Alf and Betty went to visit Anna and Graham on a Wednesday and came home on a Friday, they'd need to figure out the permutation Wed->Fri from the permutations Wed->Thu and Thu->Fri. Mathematicians call this either composition or multiplication, and if A is the notation for Wed->Thu and B is the notation for Thu->Fri, they would write it as BA or B∙A. It may seem backwards, but that's they way mathematicians roll.

Note that B∙A will NOT give the same result as A∙B – unlike regular multiplication of numbers, this sort of multiplication is generally not commutative. (There is an exception to this rule; when two or more cycles are disjoint they can be performed in any order.)

The cycle notation for Thu->Fri is 

              Thu->Fri: (1 10 4 13 2 8 9 11 3 6) (5 7) (12 14)

and the multiplication Thu->Fri∙Wed->Thu gives the result 

              Wed->Fri: (1 10 15 7 6 ) (2 9 14 13 11 4 8 5 12)

The order of a permutation is the number of times it needs to be applied for the items being rearranged to return to their starting position, and the signature of a permutation is 1 if an even number of transpositions would be required to do the permutation, and -1 if it required an odd number of permutations. 

The order of a permutation is the least common multiple of its cycles' lengths, and the signature is 1 if a permutation has an even number of cycles with an even number of elements, and -1 otherwise.

For a summary of the mathematics discussed here, and a demonstration of the manual method for multiplying permutations in cycle notation, I suggest the Socratica YouTube video [https://youtu.be/MpKG6FmcIHk Cycle Notation of Permutations - Abstract Algebra].  

(Other suitable videos are also available, including the first three parts of [https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2k-dbnrYA2h_T8BW42rOiSlGqV3UG-qk this YouTube playlist] by Dr Angela Berardinelli.) 

Wolfram Alpha is useful resource for testing code. If you enter one-line notation wrapped in parentheses and scroll down a little way when it has finished computing, you will find, amongst other things, the cycle decomposition and the inverse permutation. If you enter cycle notation preceded by the word "permutation" it will give the result of multiplying the cycles in all the notations mentioned above as well as the order and signature of the result.

;Task:

'''Notes:''' 

Alf and Betty chose to represent one-line notation as space delimited numbers without enclosing parentheses, brackets or braces. This representation is not mandated. If it is more convenient to, for example, use comma delimitation and enclosing braces, then do so. Similar considerations apply to their choice of representations for cycles and the cycles of a permutation. State which representations your solution uses.

Their choice of orderings for cycle notation (i.e. smallest number first for cycles, cycles sorted in ascending order by first number) is not mandated. If your solution uses a different ordering, describe it.

Similarly, right-to-left evaluation of cycle multiplication as composition of functions is not mandated. Show how Thu->Fri∙Wed->Thu would be written in your solution. 

Alf and Betty's system is one-based. If a zero-based system is more appropriate, then use that, but provide the means (e.g. one or more functions, procedures, subroutines, methods, or words, et cetera) to allow conversion to and from zero-based and one-based representations so that user I/O can be one-based. State if this is the case in your solution.

Their choice of orderings for cycle notation (i.e. smallest number first for cycles, cycles sorted in ascending order by first number) is not mandated. If your solution uses a different ordering, describe it.

Their choice of omitting trailing 1-cycles in one-line notation and all 1-cycles in cycle-notation is not mandated. Include 1-cycles in either notation if you prefer.

Other names exist for some of the terms used in this task. For example, the signature is also known as the sign or parity. Use whichever terms you are comfortable with, but make it clear what they mean.

Data validation is not required for this task. You can assume that all arguments and user inputs are valid. If you do include sanity checks, they should not be to the detriment of the legibility of your code.

If the required functionality is available as part of your language or in a library well known to the language's user base, state this and consider writing equivalent code for bonus points.


#Provide routines (i.e. functions, procedures, subroutines, methods, words or whatever your language uses) that
##given two strings containing the same characters as one another, and without repeated characters within the strings, returns the permutation in either one-line or cycle notation that transforms one of the strings into the other.
##given a permutation, returns the inverse permutation, for both cycle and one-line notation.
##given a permutation and a string of unique characters, returns the string with the characters permuted, for both cycle and one-line notation.
##given two permutations A and B in cycle notation, returns a single permutation in cycle notation equivalent to applying first A and then B. i.e. A.B
##convert permutations in one-line notation to cycle notation and vice versa.
##return the order of a permutation.
##return the signature of a permutation.
#Demonstrate how Alf and Betty can use this functionality in the scenario described above. Assume that Alf and Betty are novice programmers that have some famiiarity with your language. (i.e. Keep It Simple.) Provide the output from your demonstation code.




